Adding part three: thinking cloud native, knative + falcosidekick to the falco blog (#425)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/blog/falcosidekick-reponse-engine-part-3-knative.md

---
title: Kubernetes Response Engine, Part 3: Falcosidekick + Knative
date: 2021-04-28
author: Scott Nichols and Dan Papandrea
slug: falcosidekick-reponse-engine-part-3-knative
---

> This blog post is part of a series of articles about how to create a Kubernetes
> response engine with `Falco`, `Falcosidekick` and a workload platform.
> 
> See other posts:
> 
> - [Kubernetes Response Engine, Part 1 : Falcosidekick +
>   Kubeless]({{< ref "/blog/falcosidekick-reponse-engine-part-1-kubeless" >}})
> - [Kubernetes Response Engine, Part 2 : Falcosidekick +
>   OpenFaas]({{< ref "/blog/falcosidekick-reponse-engine-part-2-openfass" >}})
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> *This blog post is part of a series of articles about how to create a `Kubernetes` response engine with `Falco`, `Falcosidekick` and a `FaaS`.*
> 
> See other posts:
> * [Kubernetes Response Engine, Part 1 : Falcosidekick + Kubeless]({{< ref "/blog/falcosidekick-reponse-engine-part-1-kubeless" >}})
> * [Kubernetes Response Engine, Part 2 : Falcosidekick + OpenFaas]({{< ref "/blog/falcosidekick-reponse-engine-part-2-openfass" >}})

----
```

From Knative Serving, we can leverage a Knative Serving Service (KService). A
KService looks like a lot like a Kubernetes deployment, but it is realized on
the cluster as an autoscaling and routable component without the need for
manually creating additional Kubernetes Services. KService can run any container
as long as it is stateless, and the lifecycle is defined only in the context of
an active HTTP request.

To tie this up in a picture,

```
Falco --[via Sidekick]--> Broker --[via Trigger]--> KService
```

We are free to make the subscriber of the Trigger be _anything_ we want it to be
as long as it is routable from the Broker, and it accepts HTTP POSTs. The
request will be a CloudEvent in Binary mode, and Falco makes JSON events, so the
payload will be the standard JSON Falco is known for. In-fact, we can replace
the KService in with a
[Kubeless function](https://falco.org/blog/falcosidekick-kubeless/) and it will
work.

## Demo

To demonstrate this, we have prepared a simple example: We will detect root
shell creations and delete that pod.

### Prerequisites

- [multipass](https://multipass.run/)
- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/),

>   [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)
```

  --set falcosidekick.enabled=true --set falcosidekick.webui.enabled=true \
  --set falcosidekick.config.cloudevents.address=http://broker-ingress.knative-eventing.svc.cluster.local/default/default
```

You should get this output:

```shell
NAME: falco
LAST DEPLOYED: Thu Jan 14 23:43:46 2021
NAMESPACE: falco
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
NOTES:
Falco agents are spinning up on each node in your cluster. After a few
seconds, they are going to start monitoring your containers looking for
security issues.
No further action should be required.

```

And you can see your new `Falco`,`Falco Sidekick`,`Falco Sidekick UI` pods:

```shell
kubectl get pods -n falco
NAME                                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
falco-jh75c                               1/1     Running   0          1d
falco-falcosidekick-554b8859d5-v9xkg      1/1     Running   0          1d
falco-falcosidekick-554b8859d5-x2zkk      1/1     Running   0          1d
falco-falcosidekick-ui-5d747688f9-g96x5   1/1     Running   11         1d
```

The arguments
`--set falcosidekick.enabled=true --set falcosidekick.webui.enabled=true`
enables Falcosidekick and the UI as the below shows:

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/ZR25hRW.png)

Reviewer: The UI has drastically changed with last release, can you update you screenshot please

Reviewer: You can use this one https://raw.githubusercontent.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick-ui/master/imgs/webui_02.png

And btw, you should add in assets of the website, no external that may disappear, please

Author: Done.
